---
timestamp: 'Wed Oct 15 2025 14:21:20 GMT-0400 (Eastern Daylight Time)'
parent: '[[..\20251015_142120.c2a16de9.md]]'
content_id: 65b50700b4d7c5f4ff5dfe345ddde23d0a0da32e04a778a88568c8a1490bef11
---

# Documentation

Every concept should have inline documentation and commenting:

* The concept itself should be paired with its purpose.
* The state should be described next to any types.
* Any testing should be guided by the principle.
* Each action should state the requirements and effects, and tests should check that both work against variations.

**concept** Quiz \[Character, ZhuyinRep]

**purpose** track User's Zhuyin typing ability

**principle** track the speed and accuracy for each Character that user typed

**state**\
a set of Questions with\
  an questionId String\
  a character Character\
  a target ZhuyinRep\
  a response ZhuyinRep?\
  a startTime DateTime?\
  an endTime DateTime?\
  a speed Number?\
  a correct Boolean?

**actions**\
register (Character, ZhuyinRep): (questionId: String)\
  requires Character and ZhuyinRep are a valid pair in ZhuyinDict\
  effect Generate a questionId. Create a new Question with questionId, associated character and target ZhuyinRep, other fields unset. Return questionId.

startQuestion (questionId: String)\
  requires Question exists and not already started (startTime is unset)\
  effects update startTime of coresponding Question to current time

submitAnswer (questionId: String, response: ZhuyinRep)\
  requires Question exists and started, with endTime unset\
  effects\
  set endTime = current time\
  set response = response\
  set speed = endTime - startTime (in milliseconds)\
  set correct = (response = target)

**queries**\
getSpeed (questionId: String): (speed: Number)\
  requires Question exists and endTime set\
  effect return speed associated with Question

getAccuracy (questionId: String): (correct: Boolean)\
  requires Question exists and endTime set\
  effect return correct Boolean associated with Question

**sync** register\
*when*\
  Quiz.register (Character, providedZhuyinRep: ZhuyinRep)\
*where*\
  ZhuyinDictionary.getAnswer(Character): (registeredZhuyinRep: ZhuyinRep)\
*then*\
  if providedZhuyinRep === registeredZhuyinRep: Quiz.register(Character, registeredZhuyinRep: ZhuyinRep): (questionId: String)\
  else: error
