---
timestamp: 'Wed Oct 15 2025 02:41:06 GMT-0400 (Eastern Daylight Time)'
parent: '[[..\20251015_024106.94954f3f.md]]'
content_id: d3251f408822b800ba2a86954f90004d6512a4c1cc009840ae483b53a3a0479d
---

# Documentation

Every concept should have inline documentation and commenting:

* The concept itself should be paired with its purpose.
* The state should be described next to any types.
* Any testing should be guided by the principle.
* Each action should state the requirements and effects, and tests should check that both work against variations.

**concept** Quiz \[Character, ZhuyinRep]
**purpose** track User's Zhuyin typing ability
**principle** track the speed and accuracy for each Character that user typed

**state**
a set of Questions with
an questionId String
a character Character
a target ZhuyinRep
a response ZhuyinRep?
a startTime DateTime?
an endTime DateTime?
a speed Number?
a correct Boolean?

**actions**
register (Character, ZhuyinRep): (questionId: String)
  effect Generate a questionId. Create a new Question with questionId, associated character and target ZhuyinRep, other fields unset. Return questionId.

startQuestion (questionId: String)
requires Question not already started (startTime is unset)
effects update startTime of coresponding Question to current time

submitAnswer (questionId: String, response: ZhuyinRep)
requires Question exists with endTime unset
effects
set endTime = current time
set response = response
set speed = endTime - startTime
set correct = (response = target)

**queries**
getSpeed (questionId: String): (speed: Number)
  requires Question exists and endTime set
  effect return speed associated with Question

getAccuracy (questionId: String): (correct: Boolean)
  requires Question exists and endTime set
  effect return correct Boolean associated with Question
